# Adoption leave policy

**Adoption leave**

Employees with 26 weeks' continuous employment ending with the week in which they are notified of being matched with a child are entitled to a statutory period of adoption leave and statutory adoption pay.

Adoption leave is not available where the child is already known to the adopters i.e. where a step-parent is adopting a partner’s child.

- Employees are entitled to 26 weeks' ordinary adoption leave and additional adoption leave of a further 26 weeks. Employees are entitled to receive statutory adoption pay of the lower of 90% of his or her normal weekly salary or £135.45 per week for a period of 39 weeks. The employee must be the adopter and must have notified the adoption agency of their agreement that the child should be placed with them and the date of the placement.
- Employees must give pebble written notice of his or her intention to take ordinary adoption leave no more than seven days after the date he or she are notified of being matched with a child, unless this is not reasonably practicable. Employees may vary the date he or she has chosen as the date on which his or her period of leave will begin providing that he or she notify pebble at least 28 days in advance. If the employee is not able to give 28 days notice in advance, he or she should give notice as soon as is reasonably practicable.
- Employees should provide to pebble evidence, in the form of one or more documents issued by the adoption agency that matched the employee with the child, of the name and address of the agency; the date on which the employee was notified that it had been matched with the child, and the date on which the agency expects to place the child with the employee.
- Where appropriate, pebble or the employee may request that the employee works for up to 10 days during his or her adoption leave period. In such a case, the other party is under no obligation to agree to this request. In the event that the employee does work during his or her adoption leave pursuant to this provision, he or she will not lose his or her statutory benefits or entitlement to leave.
- Employees who wish to return to work before the end of the additional adoption leave must give pebble at least eight weeks’ advance written notice giving the date of their proposed return. If an employee fails to give this notice in full, pebble can delay their return to work until the earlier of eight weeks from the notice given or the end of additional adoption leave.
- During the adoption leave period, the employee will not be entitled to his or her normal wages or salary, but may be entitled to Statutory Adoption Pay. With the exception of payment of wages and salary, the employee will continue to receive all of his or her contractual benefits during both the ordinary and additional adoption leave periods. During the adoption leave period, the employee shall remain subject to all the express and implied terms and conditions of employment, including notice of termination, confidentiality, good faith and exclusive service.
- An employee returning to work at the end of the ordinary adoption leave period has a right to return to the job in which he or she was employed prior to taking adoption leave. An employee returning to work at the end of the additional adoption leave period has a right to return to the job in which he or she was employed prior to taking adoption leave or, if it is not reasonably practicable for pebble to permit return to that job, another job which is both suitable and appropriate in the circumstances. In the event of the employee returning to another job, the terms relating to remuneration will be not less favourable than if the employee had not been absent on adoption leave and other terms and conditions will not be substantially less favourable than the terms, which applied prior to adoption leave.

**Transfer of adoption leave**

If the employee proposes to return to work early without using his or her full 52 week entitlement to adoption leave and gives proper notice of this, he or she may be eligible to transfer up to 26 weeks of his or her outstanding adoption leave (and outstanding SAP) to his or her spouse, civil partner or partner, to be taken as additional paternity leave (and additional statutory paternity pay) on his or her return to work.

The earliest that additional paternity leave can start is 20 weeks after the adopted child’s placement and it must end no later than 12 months after the date of placement. The minimum period of additional paternity leave is two consecutive weeks and the maximum period is 26 weeks. The employee must therefore have at least two weeks of his or her adoption leave remaining in order to be able to transfer it.

If the employee does wish to transfer part of his or her adoption leave entitlement in this way, he or she will be required to submit a written and signed declaration form to the employer of his or her spouse, civil partner or partner, which may also make additional enquiries of pebble to verify its employee’s entitlement to additional paternity leave and pay.
